Well in order to be able to navigate, I want to include some links obviously and for that to be included,
I'll quickly create a new component which I'll simply name header.vue and in there, I simply want
to have a template and now I will grab some nice links from getbootstrap.com/components
and there from navs,
I like this pills look here,
so I will quickly copy this snippet over to my template and there, I want to have two links
for now, I want to have my home link,
that's correct
and then the user link.
I didn't want to have the active class on it though because I don't know if it will always be active,
we'll come back to marking a link as active in one of the next videos too.
So now I got both links with my anchor tags, though
I don't want to use them like this,
I don't want to use the ref attribute because that would always send a request to the server
and even though that would be handled correctly, I don't want to do it like this because first of all
that would limit the way how I can set up the links I visit and I will come back to this and it will
also mean I always send the request
but if I'm already on the page and I click on this, it would be better if the request doesn't get sent
in the first place because I know I don't want to leave the application.
Well for this, vuejs gives us a nice little alternative to using an anchor tag at all, so we're
going to remove it and instead use a component the vue router ships with. It's called router link and it
will render an anchor tag in the end
so you wrap your content with this router link here but it allows you to set it up differently than
the normal anchor tag.
What you do set up here for example is you pass the to attribute,
you can also dynamically bind this by adding a colon in front of it of course, we will see this in one of
the next videos too and then to is simply the path you want to navigate to.
This can either be a relative path like user, now it'll always be appended to the current URL or
/user or /home or just slash in this case to append it to the end of your domain instead of the
end of your current
URL and here, we would have /user for example.
Now by setting it up like this, if we go back to our application and well maybe also include it here, that
would also help so also quickly import the header from components header.vue file and then register it
as a local component here,
so app header shall be our header
and now I want to add it above my loaded component let's say, like this.
With that in place, we now see our links here and you see, it works,
if we inspect such a link here, we see it is an anchor tag,
this is what I told you,
it gets replaced by an anchor tag
even though we used router link in our code. You also see that it has this class attached to it,
this route link active class but only if it is active,
we're going to take advantage of this class soon. For now the great thing is we got our working routing
and the interesting thing is if you click this link, it's actually not reloading the page,
you can tell by it not playing this reload animation up there.
It doesn't do that because since we used router link, there's an implicit click listener attached to it,
so if you click on it, it doesn't do the default behavior of sending a request,
instead it simply listens to the click and loads the correct route
which is one of the big advantages of using router link instead of the normal anchor tag.